technical-skills/whiteboarding/questions/13A.md, before:

## Introduction

Tell me a little about yourself.

(Assume you are applying to Bank of America)

## Challenges

Discuss a time when you learned a challenging new skill.

## `rand7`

Write a method to generate a random integer `(0...7)`, given a method
that generates a random integer between `(0...5)`. The resulting rand7
distribution must be uniform.

### Solution

```ruby
def rand7
  while true
    # construct a random number (0...5**2)
    # (0, 5, 10, 15, 20) + (0, 1, 2, 3, 4)
    num = 5 * rand5 + rand5
    return (num % 7) if num < 21

    # we reject 21, 22, 23, 24; we'll choose another number in that
    # case.
  end
end
```

Let's walk through the above solution. First off, why can't we do something like this:

```ruby
def rand7
  sum = 0
  7.times do
    sum += rand5
  end

  sum / 7
end
```

We can't use the above code, because our distribution would not be even - we would see a bell curve where it would be much more likely to get values in the middle of the curve than values like 0. (Think of rolling two dice - 7 is a much more likely than a 2 or 12).

In the correct code, we generate a random number with even distribution between 0 and 24 with the line `num = 5 * rand5 + rand5`. Prove to yourself that this number is randomly distributed. We then reject the number and try again if it is > 21 (to ensure even distribution), or if it is <= 21, we return the number % 7 (this will return evenly distributed numbers in the range 0...7). 

## Matchsticks

You have two sticks and a matchbox. Each stick takes exactly an hour
to burn from one end to the other.

The sticks are weird, in that they do not burn at a steady. If you
break a stick in half, it is not guaranteed that each half will take
30min to burn.

How would you measure exactly 45 minutes by burning these sticks?

### Solution

Take stick1, light it at both ends. At the same time, light stick2 at
one end.

When stick1 is extinguished, 30min have passed. Now, light stick2 at
the other end. The stick will take another 15min to finish burning.

Commit message:

Add alternate solution to rand7 problem

technical-skills/whiteboarding/questions/13A.md, after:

## Introduction

Tell me a little about yourself.

(Assume you are applying to Bank of America)

## Challenges

Discuss a time when you learned a challenging new skill.

## `rand7`

Write a method to generate a random integer `(0...7)`, given a method
that generates a random integer between `(0...5)`. The resulting rand7
distribution must be uniform.

### Solution

```ruby
def rand7
  while true
    # construct a random number (0...5**2)
    # (0, 5, 10, 15, 20) + (0, 1, 2, 3, 4)
    num = 5 * rand5 + rand5
    return (num % 7) if num < 21

    # we reject 21, 22, 23, 24; we'll choose another number in that
    # case.
  end
end
```

Let's walk through the above solution. First off, why can't we do something like this:

```ruby
def rand7
  sum = 0
  7.times do
    sum += rand5
  end

  sum / 7
end
```

We can't use the above code, because our distribution would not be even - we would see a bell curve where it would be much more likely to get values in the middle of the curve than values like 0. (Think of rolling two dice - 7 is a much more likely than a 2 or 12).

In the correct code, we generate a random number with even distribution between 0 and 24 with the line `num = 5 * rand5 + rand5`. Prove to yourself that this number is randomly distributed. We then reject the number and try again if it is > 21 (to ensure even distribution), or if it is <= 21, we return the number % 7 (this will return evenly distributed numbers in the range 0...7).

### Alternate Solution

```ruby
def rand7
  result = 0
  result += (rand5 < 3 ? 0 : 1)
  result += (rand5 < 3 ? 0 : 2)
  result += (rand5 < 3 ? 0 : 4)
  result
end
```

## Matchsticks

You have two sticks and a matchbox. Each stick takes exactly an hour
to burn from one end to the other.

The sticks are weird, in that they do not burn at a steady. If you
break a stick in half, it is not guaranteed that each half will take
30min to burn.

How would you measure exactly 45 minutes by burning these sticks?

### Solution

Take stick1, light it at both ends. At the same time, light stick2 at
one end.

When stick1 is extinguished, 30min have passed. Now, light stick2 at
the other end. The stick will take another 15min to finish burning.
