algorithms/hashmap_lru/project/firstname_lastname/README.md, before:

# MyHashMap

Today you will implement your very own HashMap. If this sounds tricky,
don't worry--we've provided specs.

## Learning Goals

* Be able to write a resizing array class
* Be able to describe the characteristics of a good hashing function
* Be able to explain how a linked list works and know how to traverse it
* Be able to explain how a hash map works
* Know how to implement an LRU cache using hash maps and linked lists

## Phase 1: IntSet

A **Set** is a data type that can store unordered, unique items. Sets
don't make any promises regarding insertion order, and they won't store
duplicates. In exchange for those constraints, sets have remarkably fast
retrieval time and can quickly look up the presence of values.

Many mathematicians claim that sets are the foundation of mathematics,
so basically we're going to build *all of mathematics* today. No big deal.

A set is an **abstract data type**
([ADT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_data_type)). An ADT can be
thought of as a high-level description of a structure and an API (i.e., a
specific set of methods). Examples of ADTs are things like
sets, maps, or queues. But any given data type or API can be realized
through many different implementations. Those implementations are known as
**data structures**.

Different data structures can implement the same abstract data type, but some
data structures are worse than others. We're going to show you *the best*
implementations, or close to them. (In reality, there's usually no single
best implementation of an ADT; there are always tradeoffs.)

Sound cool yet? Now let's go build a Set.

### MaxIntSet

We'll start with the first stage. In this version of a set, we can only
store integers that live in a predefined range. So I tell you the
maximum integer I'll ever want to store, and you give me a set that can
store it and any smaller positive number.

- Initialize your MaxIntSet with an integer called `max` to define the
  range of integers that we're keeping track of.
- Internal structure:
  - An array called `@store`, of length `max`
  - Each index in the `@store` will correspond to an item, and the value
    at that index will correspond to its presence (either `true` or
    `false`)
  - e.g., the set `{ 0, 2, 3 }` will be stored as: `[true, false, true,
    true]`
  - The size of the array will remain constant!
  - The `MaxIntSet` should raise an error if someone tries to insert, remove, or check inclusion of a number that is out of bounds.
- Methods:
  - `#insert`
  - `#remove`
  - `#include?`

Once you've built this and it works, we'll move on to the next
iteration.

### IntSet

Now let's see if we can keep track of an arbitrary range of integers.
Here's where it gets interesting. Create a brand new class for this one.
We'll still initialize an array of a fixed length--say, 20. But now,
instead of each element being `true` or `false`, they'll each be
sub-arrays.

Imagine the set as consisting of 20 buckets (the sub-arrays). When we
insert an integer into this set, we'll pick one of the 20 buckets where
that integer will live. That can be done easily with the modulo
operator: `i = n % 20`.

Using this mapping, which wraps around once every 20 integers, every
integer will be deterministically assigned to a bucket. Using this
concept, create your new and improved set.

- Initialize an array of size 20, with each containing item being an
  empty array.
- To look up a number in the set, modulo (%) the number by the set's
  length, and add it to the array at that index. If the integer is
  present in that bucket, that's how we know it's included in the set.
- You should fill out the `#[]` method to easily look up a bucket in the store - calling `self[num]` will be more DRY than `@store[num % num_buckets]` at every step of the way!
- Your new set should be able to keep track of an arbitrary range of
  integers, including negative integers. Test it out.

### ResizingIntSet

The IntSet is okay for small sample sizes. But if the number of elements
grows pretty big, our set's retrieval time depends more and more on an
array scan, which is what we're trying to get away from. It's slow.

Scanning for an item in an array (when you don't know the index) takes
`O(n)` time, because you potentially have to look at every item. So if we're
having to do an array scan on one of the 20 buckets, that bucket will have on
average 1/20th of the overall items. That gives us an overall time
complexity proportional to `0.05n`. When you strip out the 0.05 constant
factor, that's still `O(n)`. Meh.

Let's see if we can do better.

- Make a new class. This time, let's increase the number of buckets as
  the size of the set increases. The goal is to have `buckets.length >
  N` at all times.
- You may want to implement an `inspect` method to make debugging easier.
- What are the time complexities of the operations of your set
  implementation?

## Phase 2: Hashing

A hash function is a sequence of mathematical operations that
deterministically maps any arbitrary data into a pre-defined range of
values. Anything that does that is a hash function. However, a *good*
hash function satisfies the property of being **uniform** in how it
distributes that data over its range of values.

To create a good hash function, we want to be able to hash absolutely
anything. That includes integers, strings, arrays, and even other
hashes.

Also, a hash function should be **deterministic**, meaning that it
should always produce the same value given the same input. It's also
essential that equivalent objects produce the same hash. So if
we have two arrays, each equal to [1, 2, 3], we want them both to hash
to the same value.

So let's construct a nice hashing function that'll do that for us. Be
creative here!

Write hash functions for `Array`, `String`, and `Hash`. Build these up sequentially.

  - Use `Fixnum#hash` as a base hashing function. The trick here will be to create a
    scheme to convert instances of each class to a `Fixnum` and then apply this
    hashing function. This can be used on `Numeric`s such as the index of an array
    element.
    - Don't try to overwrite Ruby's native `Fixnum#hash`; making a hash function
      for numbers is something that's outside the scope of this assignment.
  - Ordering of elements is essential to hashing an `Array` or `String`. This means each
    element in an `Array` or `String` should be associated with its index during hashing.
    Ex. `[1, 2, 3].hash == [3, 2, 1].hash # => false`
  - On the other hand, ordering is **not** to be considered with a `Hash`. Hashes are based
    on sets and have no fixed order. Ex. `{a: 1, b: 2}.hash == {b: 2, a: 1}.hash # => true`

### Hints:
  - Can you write `String#hash` in terms of `Array#hash`?
  - When you get to hashing hashes: one trick to make a hash function
    order-agnostic is to turn the object into an array, stably sort
    the array, and then hash the array. This'll make it so every
    unordered version of that same object will hash to the same value.

#### Notes:

* **Don't spend more than 30 minutes working on hashing functions**. Great hashing functions are hard to write. Your goal is to write a good-enough hashing function and move forth to the fun stuff ahead! Call over a TA if needed.
* **Avoid using byebug inside your hash methods**. The functioning of byebug's internal code will cause this to break since it calls Array#hash.
* **You may want to refer to the resource on
[XOR][xor-info]** (`^` in Ruby). XOR is a great tool for hashing because
it's fast, and it provides a good, nearly uniform output of bits.

[More reading on hash functions][hash-info].

[hash-info]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function
[xor-info]: http://www.cs.umd.edu/class/sum2003/cmsc311/Notes/BitOp/xor.html

## Phase 3: HashSet

Now that we've got our hashing functions, we can store more than just
integers. Let's make it so we can store any data type in our set.

This will be a simple improvement on ResizingIntSet. Just hash every
item before performing any operation on it. This will return an integer,
which you can modulo by the number of buckets. Implement the `#[]` method to dry up your code. With this simple
construction, your set will be able to handle keys of any data type.

Easy as pie. We now have a fabulous set that works with any data type!

Now let's take it one step further.

Up until now, our hash set has only been able to insert and then check
for inclusion. We couldn't create a map of values, as in key-value
pairs. Let's change that and create a **hash map**. But first, we'll
have to build a subordinate, underlying data structure.

## Phase 4: Linked List

A [linked list][linked-list-wiki] is a data structure that consists of a
series of nodes. Each node holds a value and a pointer to the next node (or `nil`). Given a pointer to the first (or head) node, you can access
any arbitrary node by traversing the nodes in order.

We will be implementing a special type of linked list called a "doubly linked list" - this means that each node should also hold a pointer to the previous node. Given a pointer to the last (or tail) node, we can traverse the list in reverse order.

Our LinkedLists will ultimately be used in lieu of arrays for our HashMap buckets. In order to make the HashMap work, each node in your linked list will need to store both a key and a value.

The `Node` class is provided for you. It's up to you to implement the
`LinkedList`.

### Making Heads and Tails of `LinkedList`

There are a few ways to implement `LinkedList`. You can either start with head and tail of your list as `nil`, or start them off as sentinel nodes. We recommend using sentinel nodes because they can help you avoid unnecessary type checking for `nil`.

A sentinel node is merely a "dummy" node that does not hold a value. Your `LinkedList` should keep track of pointers (read: instance variables) to sentinel nodes for its head and tail. The head and tail should never be reassigned.

Given these properties of our `LinkedList`, how might we check if our list is empty? How might we check if we are at the end of our list? Think about how your linked list will function as you implement the methods below.

### Methods to Implement

Go forth and implement the following methods:
- `first`
- `empty?`
- `#append(key, val)` - Append a new node to the end of the list.
- `#update(key, val)` - Find an existing node by key and update its value.
- `#get(key)`
- `#include?(key)`
- `#remove(key)`

Specs await!

Once you're done with those, we're going to also make your linked lists
enumerable. We want them to be just as flexible as arrays. Remember back
to when you wrote `Array#my_each`, and let's get this thing enumerating. The block passed to `#each` will yield to a `node`.

Once you have `#each` defined, you can include the `Enumerable` module
into your class. As long as you have `each` defined, the `Enumerable`
module gives you `map`, `each_with_index`, `select`, `any?` and all of
the other enumeration methods for free! (Note: you may wish to refactor your `#update`, `#get`, and `#include` methods to use your `#each` method for cleaner code!)

## Phase 5: Hash Map (reprise)

So now let's incorporate our linked list into our hash buckets. Instead
of Arrays, we'll use `LinkedLists` for our buckets. Each linked list will
start out empty. But whenever we want to insert an item into that
bucket, we'll just append it to the end of that linked list.

So here again is a summary of how you use our hash map:
- Hash the key, mod by the number of buckets (implement the `#bucket` method first for cleaner code - it should return the correct bucket for a hashed key)
- To **set**, insert a new link with the key and value into the correct bucket. (You can use your `LinkedList#append` method.) If the key already exists, you will need to update the existing link.
- To **get**, check whether the linked list contains the key you're
  looking up
- To **delete**, remove the link corresponding to that key from the
  linked list

Finally, let's make your hash map properly enumerable. You know the
drill. Implement `#each`, and then include the `Enumerable` module.
Your method should yield `[key, value]` pairs.

Also make sure your hash map resizes when the count exceeds the number of buckets! In order to resize properly, you
have to double the size of the container for your buckets. Having done
so, enumerate over each of your linked lists and re-insert their
contents into your newly-resized hash map. If you don't re-hash them,
your hash map will be completely broken. Can you see why?

Now pass those specs.

Once you're done, you should have a fully functioning hash map that can
use numbers, strings, arrays, or hashes as keys.

[linked-list-wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list

## Phase 6: LRU Cache

Let's upgrade your hash map to make an LRU Cache.

LRU stands for *Least Recently Used*. It's basically a cache of the `n`
most-recently-used items. In other words, if something doesn't get
looked at often enough, we trash it. It could be web pages, objects in
memory on a video game, or kitty toys. But it's usually not kitty toys.

[Read more about it here][lru-cache].

If you're confused, that's okay. Just follow these basic principles, and
you'll be fine.
- Your cache will only hold `max` many items (you should be able to set
  the `max` upon initialize).
- When you retrieve or insert an item, you should mark that item as now
  being the most recently used item in your cache.
- When you insert an item, if the cache exceeds size `max`, delete the
  least recently used item. This keeps the cache size always at `max` or
  below.

So that's our caching strategy. But how do we actually build this thing?
Well, an LRU cache is built using a combination of two data structures:
a hash map, and a linked list.

This is how we'll use the linked list: Each node in the list will hold a
cached object. We'll always add new nodes to the end of the list, so the
nodes at the end will always be the freshest, while those at the beginning
are the oldest. Whenever an object is requested and found in the cache,
it becomes the freshest item, so we'll need to move it to the end of the
list to maintain that order.

Once the cache is full, we'll need to expire old entries too, so we'll
remove items from the beginning since those are the oldest.

So just with that we've got a decent strategy for our LRU cache. Using a
linked list, it's easy to add stuff, delete stuff, and to update its
position among the most recently used items in our cache.

The only problem is lookup time. Linked lists are slow. If we want to
figure out if an item is in the cache, we have to look at each node
one-by-one; that's an `O(n)` traversal. That's not great. Let's see if
we can augment this with a hash map to make it faster.

Here's the plan: we'll create a hash map whose keys will be the same keys
that we put in our linked list. But unlike the linked list, our hash map won't
store the values associated with those keys. Instead, the hash map will
point to the *node object in our linked list* (if it exists). Every time
we update the LRU cache by inserting or deleting an element, we'll
insert it into our hash or delete it from our hash (which both take
`O(1)` time).

![](lru-cache-scaled500.png?raw=true)

We'll have two data structures to keep in sync now, which is a little
more complicated. But the upside is that our hash map will allow us to
jump into the middle of the linked list instantly, in `O(1)` time.
That's awesome.

With this combination of data structures, we'll have `O(1)` lookup,
insertion, and deletion for our cache. You can't ask for better.

So let's map the same data in both a hash map and in a linked list.

### Instructions:

- Let's say we're building an LRU cache that's going to cache the values
  of the perfect squares. So our LRU cache will store a `@prc`, which
  in this case will be `Proc.new { |x| x ** 2 }`. If we don't have the
  value of any number's square, we'll use this Proc to actually compute
  it. But we don't want to compute it for the same number twice, so
  after I compute anything, I'll store it in my LRU cache. But if my LRU
  Cache gets an input that doesn't exist in the cache, it'll compute it
  using the Proc.
- Now build your LRU cache. Every time you add a new key-value pair to
  your cache, you'll take two steps.
  - First, look to see if the key points to any node in your hash map.
    If it does, that means that the item exists in your cache. Before
    you return the value from the node though, move the node to the very
    end of the list (since it's now the most recently used item).
  - Say the key isn't in your hash map. That means it's not in your
    cache, so you need to compute its value and then add it. That has
    two parts.
      - First, you call the proc using your key as input; the output
        will be your key's value. Append that key-value pair to the
        linked list (since, again, it's now the most recently used
        item). Then, add the key to your hash, along with a pointer to
        the new link. Finally, you have to check if the cache has
        exceeded its `max` size. If so, call the`eject!` function, which
        should delete the least recently used item so your LRU cache is
        back to `max` size.
      - Hint: to delete that item, you have to delete the *first* item
        in your linked list, and
        delete that key from your hash. Implemented correctly, these
        should both happen in `O(1)` time.

And you did it! Congratulations!

[lru-cache]: http://mcicpc.cs.atu.edu/archives/2012/mcpc2012/lru/lru.html

Commit message:

Change from link to node in hashmap project

algorithms/hashmap_lru/project/firstname_lastname/README.md, after:

# MyHashMap

Today you will implement your very own HashMap. If this sounds tricky,
don't worry--we've provided specs.

## Learning Goals

* Be able to write a resizing array class
* Be able to describe the characteristics of a good hashing function
* Be able to explain how a linked list works and know how to traverse it
* Be able to explain how a hash map works
* Know how to implement an LRU cache using hash maps and linked lists

## Phase 1: IntSet

A **Set** is a data type that can store unordered, unique items. Sets
don't make any promises regarding insertion order, and they won't store
duplicates. In exchange for those constraints, sets have remarkably fast
retrieval time and can quickly look up the presence of values.

Many mathematicians claim that sets are the foundation of mathematics,
so basically we're going to build *all of mathematics* today. No big deal.

A set is an **abstract data type**
([ADT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_data_type)). An ADT can be
thought of as a high-level description of a structure and an API (i.e., a
specific set of methods). Examples of ADTs are things like
sets, maps, or queues. But any given data type or API can be realized
through many different implementations. Those implementations are known as
**data structures**.

Different data structures can implement the same abstract data type, but some
data structures are worse than others. We're going to show you *the best*
implementations, or close to them. (In reality, there's usually no single
best implementation of an ADT; there are always tradeoffs.)

Sound cool yet? Now let's go build a Set.

### MaxIntSet

We'll start with the first stage. In this version of a set, we can only
store integers that live in a predefined range. So I tell you the
maximum integer I'll ever want to store, and you give me a set that can
store it and any smaller positive number.

- Initialize your MaxIntSet with an integer called `max` to define the
  range of integers that we're keeping track of.
- Internal structure:
  - An array called `@store`, of length `max`
  - Each index in the `@store` will correspond to an item, and the value
    at that index will correspond to its presence (either `true` or
    `false`)
  - e.g., the set `{ 0, 2, 3 }` will be stored as: `[true, false, true,
    true]`
  - The size of the array will remain constant!
  - The `MaxIntSet` should raise an error if someone tries to insert, remove, or check inclusion of a number that is out of bounds.
- Methods:
  - `#insert`
  - `#remove`
  - `#include?`

Once you've built this and it works, we'll move on to the next
iteration.

### IntSet

Now let's see if we can keep track of an arbitrary range of integers.
Here's where it gets interesting. Create a brand new class for this one.
We'll still initialize an array of a fixed length--say, 20. But now,
instead of each element being `true` or `false`, they'll each be
sub-arrays.

Imagine the set as consisting of 20 buckets (the sub-arrays). When we
insert an integer into this set, we'll pick one of the 20 buckets where
that integer will live. That can be done easily with the modulo
operator: `i = n % 20`.

Using this mapping, which wraps around once every 20 integers, every
integer will be deterministically assigned to a bucket. Using this
concept, create your new and improved set.

- Initialize an array of size 20, with each containing item being an
  empty array.
- To look up a number in the set, modulo (%) the number by the set's
  length, and add it to the array at that index. If the integer is
  present in that bucket, that's how we know it's included in the set.
- You should fill out the `#[]` method to easily look up a bucket in the store - calling `self[num]` will be more DRY than `@store[num % num_buckets]` at every step of the way!
- Your new set should be able to keep track of an arbitrary range of
  integers, including negative integers. Test it out.

### ResizingIntSet

The IntSet is okay for small sample sizes. But if the number of elements
grows pretty big, our set's retrieval time depends more and more on an
array scan, which is what we're trying to get away from. It's slow.

Scanning for an item in an array (when you don't know the index) takes
`O(n)` time, because you potentially have to look at every item. So if we're
having to do an array scan on one of the 20 buckets, that bucket will have on
average 1/20th of the overall items. That gives us an overall time
complexity proportional to `0.05n`. When you strip out the 0.05 constant
factor, that's still `O(n)`. Meh.

Let's see if we can do better.

- Make a new class. This time, let's increase the number of buckets as
  the size of the set increases. The goal is to have `buckets.length >
  N` at all times.
- You may want to implement an `inspect` method to make debugging easier.
- What are the time complexities of the operations of your set
  implementation?

## Phase 2: Hashing

A hash function is a sequence of mathematical operations that
deterministically maps any arbitrary data into a pre-defined range of
values. Anything that does that is a hash function. However, a *good*
hash function satisfies the property of being **uniform** in how it
distributes that data over its range of values.

To create a good hash function, we want to be able to hash absolutely
anything. That includes integers, strings, arrays, and even other
hashes.

Also, a hash function should be **deterministic**, meaning that it
should always produce the same value given the same input. It's also
essential that equivalent objects produce the same hash. So if
we have two arrays, each equal to [1, 2, 3], we want them both to hash
to the same value.

So let's construct a nice hashing function that'll do that for us. Be
creative here!

Write hash functions for `Array`, `String`, and `Hash`. Build these up sequentially.

  - Use `Fixnum#hash` as a base hashing function. The trick here will be to create a
    scheme to convert instances of each class to a `Fixnum` and then apply this
    hashing function. This can be used on `Numeric`s such as the index of an array
    element.
    - Don't try to overwrite Ruby's native `Fixnum#hash`; making a hash function
      for numbers is something that's outside the scope of this assignment.
  - Ordering of elements is essential to hashing an `Array` or `String`. This means each
    element in an `Array` or `String` should be associated with its index during hashing.
    Ex. `[1, 2, 3].hash == [3, 2, 1].hash # => false`
  - On the other hand, ordering is **not** to be considered with a `Hash`. Hashes are based
    on sets and have no fixed order. Ex. `{a: 1, b: 2}.hash == {b: 2, a: 1}.hash # => true`

### Hints:
  - Can you write `String#hash` in terms of `Array#hash`?
  - When you get to hashing hashes: one trick to make a hash function
    order-agnostic is to turn the object into an array, stably sort
    the array, and then hash the array. This'll make it so every
    unordered version of that same object will hash to the same value.

#### Notes:

* **Don't spend more than 30 minutes working on hashing functions**. Great hashing functions are hard to write. Your goal is to write a good-enough hashing function and move forth to the fun stuff ahead! Call over a TA if needed.
* **Avoid using byebug inside your hash methods**. The functioning of byebug's internal code will cause this to break since it calls Array#hash.
* **You may want to refer to the resource on
[XOR][xor-info]** (`^` in Ruby). XOR is a great tool for hashing because
it's fast, and it provides a good, nearly uniform output of bits.

[More reading on hash functions][hash-info].

[hash-info]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function
[xor-info]: http://www.cs.umd.edu/class/sum2003/cmsc311/Notes/BitOp/xor.html

## Phase 3: HashSet

Now that we've got our hashing functions, we can store more than just
integers. Let's make it so we can store any data type in our set.

This will be a simple improvement on ResizingIntSet. Just hash every
item before performing any operation on it. This will return an integer,
which you can modulo by the number of buckets. Implement the `#[]` method to dry up your code. With this simple
construction, your set will be able to handle keys of any data type.

Easy as pie. We now have a fabulous set that works with any data type!

Now let's take it one step further.

Up until now, our hash set has only been able to insert and then check
for inclusion. We couldn't create a map of values, as in key-value
pairs. Let's change that and create a **hash map**. But first, we'll
have to build a subordinate, underlying data structure.

## Phase 4: Linked List

A [linked list][linked-list-wiki] is a data structure that consists of a
series of nodes. Each node holds a value and a pointer to the next node (or `nil`). Given a pointer to the first (or head) node, you can access
any arbitrary node by traversing the nodes in order.

We will be implementing a special type of linked list called a "doubly linked list" - this means that each node should also hold a pointer to the previous node. Given a pointer to the last (or tail) node, we can traverse the list in reverse order.

Our LinkedLists will ultimately be used in lieu of arrays for our HashMap buckets. In order to make the HashMap work, each node in your linked list will need to store both a key and a value.

The `Node` class is provided for you. It's up to you to implement the
`LinkedList`.

### Making Heads and Tails of `LinkedList`

There are a few ways to implement `LinkedList`. You can either start with head and tail of your list as `nil`, or start them off as sentinel nodes. We recommend using sentinel nodes because they can help you avoid unnecessary type checking for `nil`.

A sentinel node is merely a "dummy" node that does not hold a value. Your `LinkedList` should keep track of pointers (read: instance variables) to sentinel nodes for its head and tail. The head and tail should never be reassigned.

Given these properties of our `LinkedList`, how might we check if our list is empty? How might we check if we are at the end of our list? Think about how your linked list will function as you implement the methods below.

### Methods to Implement

Go forth and implement the following methods:
- `first`
- `empty?`
- `#append(key, val)` - Append a new node to the end of the list.
- `#update(key, val)` - Find an existing node by key and update its value.
- `#get(key)`
- `#include?(key)`
- `#remove(key)`

Specs await!

Once you're done with those, we're going to also make your linked lists
enumerable. We want them to be just as flexible as arrays. Remember back
to when you wrote `Array#my_each`, and let's get this thing enumerating. The block passed to `#each` will yield to a `node`.

Once you have `#each` defined, you can include the `Enumerable` module
into your class. As long as you have `each` defined, the `Enumerable`
module gives you `map`, `each_with_index`, `select`, `any?` and all of
the other enumeration methods for free! (Note: you may wish to refactor your `#update`, `#get`, and `#include` methods to use your `#each` method for cleaner code!)

## Phase 5: Hash Map (reprise)

So now let's incorporate our linked list into our hash buckets. Instead
of Arrays, we'll use `LinkedLists` for our buckets. Each linked list will
start out empty. But whenever we want to insert an item into that
bucket, we'll just append it to the end of that linked list.

So here again is a summary of how you use our hash map:
- Hash the key, mod by the number of buckets (implement the `#bucket` method first for cleaner code - it should return the correct bucket for a hashed key)
- To **set**, insert a new node with the key and value into the correct bucket. (You can use your `LinkedList#append` method.) If the key already exists, you will need to update the existing node.
- To **get**, check whether the linked list contains the key you're
  looking up
- To **delete**, remove the node corresponding to that key from the
  linked list

Finally, let's make your hash map properly enumerable. You know the
drill. Implement `#each`, and then include the `Enumerable` module.
Your method should yield `[key, value]` pairs.

Also make sure your hash map resizes when the count exceeds the number of buckets! In order to resize properly, you
have to double the size of the container for your buckets. Having done
so, enumerate over each of your linked lists and re-insert their
contents into your newly-resized hash map. If you don't re-hash them,
your hash map will be completely broken. Can you see why?

Now pass those specs.

Once you're done, you should have a fully functioning hash map that can
use numbers, strings, arrays, or hashes as keys.

[linked-list-wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list

## Phase 6: LRU Cache

Let's upgrade your hash map to make an LRU Cache.

LRU stands for *Least Recently Used*. It's basically a cache of the `n`
most-recently-used items. In other words, if something doesn't get
looked at often enough, we trash it. It could be web pages, objects in
memory on a video game, or kitty toys. But it's usually not kitty toys.

[Read more about it here][lru-cache].

If you're confused, that's okay. Just follow these basic principles, and
you'll be fine.
- Your cache will only hold `max` many items (you should be able to set
  the `max` upon initialize).
- When you retrieve or insert an item, you should mark that item as now
  being the most recently used item in your cache.
- When you insert an item, if the cache exceeds size `max`, delete the
  least recently used item. This keeps the cache size always at `max` or
  below.

So that's our caching strategy. But how do we actually build this thing?
Well, an LRU cache is built using a combination of two data structures:
a hash map, and a linked list.

This is how we'll use the linked list: Each node in the list will hold a
cached object. We'll always add new nodes to the end of the list, so the
nodes at the end will always be the freshest, while those at the beginning
are the oldest. Whenever an object is requested and found in the cache,
it becomes the freshest item, so we'll need to move it to the end of the
list to maintain that order.

Once the cache is full, we'll need to expire old entries too, so we'll
remove items from the beginning since those are the oldest.

So just with that we've got a decent strategy for our LRU cache. Using a
linked list, it's easy to add stuff, delete stuff, and to update its
position among the most recently used items in our cache.

The only problem is lookup time. Linked lists are slow. If we want to
figure out if an item is in the cache, we have to look at each node
one-by-one; that's an `O(n)` traversal. That's not great. Let's see if
we can augment this with a hash map to make it faster.

Here's the plan: we'll create a hash map whose keys will be the same keys
that we put in our linked list. But unlike the linked list, our hash map won't
store the values associated with those keys. Instead, the hash map will
point to the *node object in our linked list* (if it exists). Every time
we update the LRU cache by inserting or deleting an element, we'll
insert it into our hash or delete it from our hash (which both take
`O(1)` time).

![](lru-cache-scaled500.png?raw=true)

We'll have two data structures to keep in sync now, which is a little
more complicated. But the upside is that our hash map will allow us to
jump into the middle of the linked list instantly, in `O(1)` time.
That's awesome.

With this combination of data structures, we'll have `O(1)` lookup,
insertion, and deletion for our cache. You can't ask for better.

So let's map the same data in both a hash map and in a linked list.

### Instructions:

- Let's say we're building an LRU cache that's going to cache the values
  of the perfect squares. So our LRU cache will store a `@prc`, which
  in this case will be `Proc.new { |x| x ** 2 }`. If we don't have the
  value of any number's square, we'll use this Proc to actually compute
  it. But we don't want to compute it for the same number twice, so
  after I compute anything, I'll store it in my LRU cache. But if my LRU
  Cache gets an input that doesn't exist in the cache, it'll compute it
  using the Proc.
- Now build your LRU cache. Every time you add a new key-value pair to
  your cache, you'll take two steps.
  - First, look to see if the key points to any node in your hash map.
    If it does, that means that the item exists in your cache. Before
    you return the value from the node though, move the node to the very
    end of the list (since it's now the most recently used item).
  - Say the key isn't in your hash map. That means it's not in your
    cache, so you need to compute its value and then add it. That has
    two parts.
      - First, you call the proc using your key as input; the output
        will be your key's value. Append that key-value pair to the
        linked list (since, again, it's now the most recently used
        item). Then, add the key to your hash, along with a pointer to
        the new node. Finally, you have to check if the cache has
        exceeded its `max` size. If so, call the`eject!` function, which
        should delete the least recently used item so your LRU cache is
        back to `max` size.
      - Hint: to delete that item, you have to delete the *first* item
        in your linked list, and
        delete that key from your hash. Implemented correctly, these
        should both happen in `O(1)` time.

And you did it! Congratulations!

[lru-cache]: http://mcicpc.cs.atu.edu/archives/2012/mcpc2012/lru/lru.html

## Phase 7: Practical Problem
